http://www.georeference.org/forum/t131459.5#131467

Interesting thread...

>It just seems that the CHM format no longer does the content justice.

It's OK as a sort of e-book format, to take with you when not connected to the web.

>Intelligent/intuitive search engines have raised expectations, changed reading habits and, possibly, lowered traditional reading abilities.

Very true, but you are too eager to swallow the bait on the hook by describing search engines as intelligent/intuitive without noting that by 99 to 1 the "intelligence" of search engines is devoted to trussing you up and selling you as the product, not to help you. There is nothing whatsoever intuitive about search engines these days.

A rant...

I also respectfully disagree that they have raised expectations. On the contrary they have lowered expectations to the least common denominator of instant gratification regardless of how low quality and how far off and inaccurate that instant gratification may be.

Yes, I agree that search engines are good at quickly finding very simple mob-rule answers to very simple questions. Quite often the mob-rule answers are even accurate. But for more sophisticated questions and answers it is usually a tedious slog to get through the hall-of-mirrors labyrinth of wildly useless "results."

It think it is the web itself that has changed reading habits and lowered reading abilities. People now spend hours browsing micro-reads, like rats hooked up to a machine where every press of a lever provides a brief blip of nice feeling to electrodes in their brains. It reminds me of watching people play the slots in Las Vegas, spending hour after hour repeating the same moves mindlessly throwing some coins into a slot, pulling the handle, watching the cylinders roll and then repeating, occasionally getting a few coins back in the tray. But now they mindlessly browse twits and stupid facebait posts about yet another vapidly superficial and transiently distracting pop culture thing.

I tell you it has become a major problem for industrialists around the world: they have a labor population with quasi-minds that shut off after 140 characters. You can't get people to pay attention beyond that even if they drive a train with the lives of hundreds at stake, or even if a few words will save them from sticking their own hands into the whirling blades of machinery. If they don't see it in a stupid cat video it doesn't exist, not even to save them from spending their lives with stumps for arms. And at that one gets the feeling their main complaint about the stumps will be they won't be able to thumb out their twits as they like.

It is no accident the oligarchs of Silicon Valley prevent their kids from using Internet. Just like dope-selling mafia lords they don't want their own kids hooked on the stuff they peddle. As John Mitchell famously remarked during a government scandal, "Watch what we do, not what we say."

DuckDuckGo, by the way, is not so creepily personalized as Google and the others because it does not tag you, at least not yet, for deep data mining commercial purposes. It's just limited as a search engine and annoying for the insultingly infantile name. What is it with these people? Can they not find a way to not think like clowns or infants or other non-serious people when they name something?

Back to business...

Everything Manifold publishes will be published in web page format as well as CHM so you could use whatever search tools you wanted to search. The problem with those is that you give up your privacy doing so and become fodder for spam for years thereafter.

It never fails to amaze me how I'll do a search on something, turn up links, click on them to take a look, find out they are not relevant and totally off the wall and then still years later I'll be fed links by Amazon in three or four different languages for products that assume I was interested in those off the wall links. Search the Manifold release 8 manual and you may find yourself getting endless travel agency ads for tours to Mexico based on the examples used.

But at some point there is no replacement for learning a sophisticated new thing by reading a sequence of introductory materials followed by deeper explication interwoven with more detailed examples. That's true of any new sophisticated thing, be it learning Photoshop-scale tools, AutoCAD, Latin language or learning how to be a doctor. You can't learn to be a good surveyor by hunt-and-peck web searches on isolated topics and you couldn't learn how to be a doctor or surgeon that way.

I think that is one of the three main reasons why there have been no new big horizontal applications appearing in computing for almost 30 years. Think about it... when was the last time that a big, significant, new horizontal such as... word processors. DBMS. spreadsheet. CAD program. Graphics arts program. GIS... appeared? The society prides itself on fast moving tech evolution but it is fast moving evolution of superficial froth with darned near zero tech content. Facebook is about social posing, not about technology. It has such abjectly low technical content that it can be and indeed was created by a handful of guys coding for a couple of weeks.

The first of the three reasons is that as business society becomes more layered with infrastructure obstacles the barrier to entry has become greater to creating and launching a major new horizontal. The availability of VC money is claimed to overcome that but instead it has become the second barrier: VCs do not want to spend time creating a big new thing but are looking for a billion dollar payback quickly on the basis of near-zero technical effort. That is a smarter play, because if you can find a social hook that taps into a stylish urge of the day you'll make far more money with far greater reliability and far less effort than trying to build something. The third factor is that the demand for big tools is microscopic compared to the infinite demand for a stylish thing that does nothing but polish vanity or quickly satisfy some other universal urge.

We forget that all those key categories of horizontals, like word processors, spread sheets and databases, as exciting and as new and interesting they were when they first appeared over 30 years ago, involved very tiny populations compared to, say, the interest in potato chips or any other interest more widely distributed among the world's billions. Google is big not because it does tech but because it handles advertising aimed at the world's infinite interest for buying stuff of truly epic, widespread interest to the billions of people in the world, immortal desires like buying porn, cat litter and a better source of those stupid gadgets that rivet vulgar sparkly bits to jeans. The interest in all that utterly dwarfs any interest in spreadsheets.

I personally don't think there is all that much difference these days between millennials and the masses 30 years ago when it comes to their ability to focus on learning significant new skills by reading carefully. People with the latter ability have always been a minority, it's just that the slacker majority 30 years ago was less visible as they parked themselves in front of TV tubes for hours each day. Now they are more visible online as their private entertainment / distraction worlds become searchable by all.

But is there a demand for significant new applications, along with sufficient grown ups to be interested in investing the time to make them sing? Sure, and the demand is bigger than it ever has been. It is just obscured in the West by all the fake-tech noise, and the growth is less obvious due to the non-English languages of much of the new demand (as the West declines the East is rising...) .

I personally cut the millennials a lot of slack as times are very hard for them. In the old days they could peaceably look forward to a solid trade, like being the best refrigeration tech or plumber in their trading area, that is a good match to the attention spans and interest of the majority of people. They could excel at that and build a good family life and relax as they saw fit without anybody hectoring them about needing to read the manual.

But now they all have to go to college and be academics and be talented at tech, or so the self-respect meme they've been sold by Apple tells them, while genuine academia and tech is neither within the talents of most people nor is it remotely something that genuinely excites them. Who really grows up wanting to know how to wire up the innards of a TV as opposed to watching TV? One in a thousand, if that, but that is what real tech is in a variety of many ways from software to hardware. It is a terrible tragedy to have to live a life where you are a loser if you don't portray yourself as excelling at something that neither interests you nor for which you have any talent. No wonder so many millennials feel lost.

Anyway, I suppose the job for Manifold is to document all new products to the last detail, hopefully providing introductory pathways to establish a solid foundation from which more detailed learning can take place. Those people who can utilize those materials will find them useful. Those who have been lured astray by Satan's minions in Mountain View and Palo Alto into thinking anything sophisticated should be as simple as watching a stupid cat video will eventually come around. :-)

Словом - иностранец. «Мастер и Маргарита» (М.Булгаков)

